README.md, before:

# Weather App (OSS)

A simple, client-side weather app that fetches current conditions from OpenWeather API. No Node.js or backend required — just HTML, CSS, and JavaScript inside `docs/`.

- Project repository: https://github.com/shivam123-dev/weather-app-oss

## Overview

This project is a static site located under `docs/`:
- `docs/index.html`: UI markup and inputs
- `docs/css/style.css`: Styling
- `docs/js/index.js`: Client-side logic using `fetch` to call OpenWeather

Search for a city, and the app shows:
- City and country
- Temperature in °C
- Weather description

## Requirements

- A modern browser (Chrome, Edge, Firefox, Safari)
- An OpenWeather API key: https://openweathermap.org/api

## Setup

1) Get an API key from OpenWeather.
2) Open `docs/js/index.js` and replace the value of `API.key` with your key.

```javascript
const API = {
	baseUrl: 'https://api.openweathermap.org/data/2.5/weather',
	key: 'YOUR_OPENWEATHER_API_KEY'
};
```

## Run Locally

No build step is required. You can open the site directly:

- Double-click `docs/index.html`, or run:

```pwsh
Start-Process "$PWD\docs\index.html"
```

## How It Works

`docs/js/index.js` calls the OpenWeather endpoint:

```
GET https://api.openweathermap.org/data/2.5/weather?q={CITY}&appid={API_KEY}&units=metric
```

The response is parsed and rendered into elements with IDs `city`, `temp`, and `weather-text` in `index.html`.

## Security & Privacy Notes

- Client-side API keys are visible in the browser. Use a restricted key (e.g., domain/IP restrictions) and avoid sharing sensitive keys publicly.
- This app only sends requests to OpenWeather and does not store personal data.

## Troubleshooting

- Empty results: ensure your API key is valid and not rate-limited.
- Network errors: check internet connectivity and that the request URL matches the documented endpoint.
- Content not updating: verify the element IDs in `index.html` match those used in `index.js`.

## Contributing

Please read [`CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md`](./CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md) and [`CONTRIBUTING.md`](./CONTRIBUTING.md) before opening issues or pull requests.

## Security

Report vulnerabilities per [`SECURITY.md`](./SECURITY.md).

## License

Licensed under the MIT License. See [`LICENSE`](./LICENSE).

Commit message:

Added dark theme and gemini AI

README.md, after:

# Weather App (OSS)

A simple, client-side weather app that fetches current conditions from OpenWeather API. No Node.js or backend required — just HTML, CSS, and JavaScript inside `docs/`.

- Project repository: https://github.com/shivam123-dev/weather-app-oss

## Overview

This project is a static site located under `docs/`:
- `docs/index.html`: UI markup and inputs
- `docs/css/style.css`: Styling
- `docs/js/index.js`: Client-side logic using `fetch` to call OpenWeather

Search for a city, and the app shows:
- City and country
- Temperature in °C
- Weather description
- An AI-style weather quote/tip (Gemini if configured, otherwise local fallback)
- A dynamic background based on the current condition
- A dark/light theme toggle (auto by time, manual toggle saved in localStorage)

## Gemini (AI Quotes)

This demo calls Gemini directly from the browser (client-side).

1) Open `docs/js/index.js`
2) Set `GEMINI_API_KEY` to your API key

Notes:
- Client-side API keys are visible to anyone who loads the site.
- For public deployments, proxy Gemini through a backend.

## Requirements

- A modern browser (Chrome, Edge, Firefox, Safari)
- An OpenWeather API key: https://openweathermap.org/api

## Setup

1) Get an API key from OpenWeather.
2) Open `docs/js/index.js` and replace the value of `API.key` with your key.

```javascript
const API = {
	baseUrl: 'https://api.openweathermap.org/data/2.5/weather',
	key: 'YOUR_OPENWEATHER_API_KEY'
};
```

## Run Locally

No build step is required. You can open the site directly:

- Double-click `docs/index.html`, or run:

```pwsh
Start-Process "$PWD\docs\index.html"
```

## How It Works

`docs/js/index.js` calls the OpenWeather endpoint:

```
GET https://api.openweathermap.org/data/2.5/weather?q={CITY}&appid={API_KEY}&units=metric
```

The response is parsed and rendered into elements with IDs `city`, `temp`, and `weather-text` in `index.html`.

## Security & Privacy Notes

- Client-side API keys are visible in the browser. Use a restricted key (e.g., domain/IP restrictions) and avoid sharing sensitive keys publicly.
- This app only sends requests to OpenWeather and does not store personal data.

## Troubleshooting

- Empty results: ensure your API key is valid and not rate-limited.
- Network errors: check internet connectivity and that the request URL matches the documented endpoint.
- Content not updating: verify the element IDs in `index.html` match those used in `index.js`.

## Contributing

Please read [`CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md`](./CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md) and [`CONTRIBUTING.md`](./CONTRIBUTING.md) before opening issues or pull requests.

## Security

Report vulnerabilities per [`SECURITY.md`](./SECURITY.md).

## License

Licensed under the MIT License. See [`LICENSE`](./LICENSE).
